Variables are used to store and manage data within a program. They act as named containers or placeholders that hold values.
Variables can store different types of data, such as numbers, text, and more, and they provide a way to reference and work with that data.
Variables are defined by a name, a data type, and an initial value (optional). For example, in Python, you can define a variable like this:
age = 30
name = "John
Data types define the kind of data that can be stored in a variable and the operations that can be performed on that data.
Common data types include integers (int), floating-point numbers (float), strings (str), boolean (bool), and more complex types like lists, dictionaries, and objects.
Different programming languages have their own set of data types, and they provide a set of operations (methods) that can be performed on each data type.
For example in C language there are several data types:
They can be basic or derived.

The following are the basic data types:
int: Used to store integer values.
float: Used to store single-precision floating-point numbers.
double: Used to store double-precision floating-point numbers.
char: Used to store a single character.
Bool: Used to store boolean values (0 for false, 1 for true).
void: Typically used in function return types to indicate no value.

The following are the dirived data types:
enum: Used to define a set of named integer constants.
struct: Used to create user-defined composite data types.
union: Similar to a struct, but it can store only one member at a time, sharing the same memory space.
array: A collection of elements of the same data type.
pointer: Used to store memory addresses.

They can also be user defined using the typedef:
Typedef: Allows you to create your own data type names for existing data types, improving code readability.

Python has more data types such as list,turples,dictionary and set.
list: An ordered collection of elements that can be of different data types .It is mutable i.e elements can be added and removed from the list. (e.g., [1, 2, 3], ['apple', 'banana', 'cherry']).
tuple: An ordered, immutable collection of elements (e.g., (1, 2, 3)).
dict: A collection of key-value pairs (e.g., {'name': 'John', 'age': 30}).
set: An unordered collection of unique elements (e.g., {1, 2, 3}).
